=Quick Steps To Implement your applications.=

Once you are done with your application and tested it successfully with the simulator, then you are ready to deploy your application.

  # Fill up the following form with the correct details.
[https://spreadsheets.google.com/a/9696.lk/viewform?hl=en&pli=1&formkey=dExQeWhiQlluQnIta0xVUlBCelpTTmc6MQ#gid=0]Drop an email to support@appzone.lk if you didn’t get application details within 2 working days.
  # You will receive an email, it will contain your SSH user details and MySQL details (if you requested). And also with an application name, application ID, reserved keyword, your application password and 4 ports which are assigned to your application.
  # after that, set the MT URL, Application ID, and Password when instantiating the sender class (MchoiceAventuraSmsMoSender or MchoiceUssdSender)
  # Once it is done, change the name of your build to the given application name. Now build your project. You will get a *application name.WAR*
  # Now connect to your reserved space using SSH. For this you can use ssh command (in linux) or SSH Secure Client (in Windows).
Check this link and it will help you.
[phttp://compudoc.princeton.edu/compudocwiki/index.php/HowTos:Connect to login servers via ssh]
  # Once you are connected you will be in the home directory.
	Ex: - cd /home/your username/
  # The first thing you have to do is copy the Apache tomcat from the /opt/shared location.
	Ex: - cp /opt/shared/ apache-tomcat-6.0.29 /home/your username
  # Go in to this folder and you will find a sub folder called *webapps*.
	Ex: - cd /home/username/apache-tomcat-6.0.29/webapps
  # Upload your WAR file to this folder. (Refer to the above tutorial)
  # Go to the conf folder in tomcat directory. 
	Ex: - cd /home/username/apache-tomcat-6.0.29/conf
  # Edit the server.xml file 
 	Ex: - vi server.xml 
Here you need to configure with the given ports to you. 
 Ex:- you have assigned 8080, 8081, 8082, and 8084 ports in server.xml change the ports for following elements. 
        <Server port=“8081” shutdown="SHUTDOWN"> 
      <Connector port="8080" protocol="HTTP/1.1" connectionTimeout="20000" 
                           redirectPort="8082" /> 
    <ConnectHere there are two Connectors. As in the example above your HTTP Connector port is *8080*. Therefore your Application URL is * apps.appzone.lk:8080/warfile_name*or port="8084" protocol="*AJP*/1.3" redirectPort="8082” /> 
  # Here there are two Connectors. As in the example above your HTTP Connector port is *8080*. Therefore your Application URL is * apps.appzone.lk:8080/warfile_name*
  # Email your application URL to support@appzone.lk (This is referred as MO url)
  # Go to the bin folder in tomcat directory. 
	Ex: - cd /home/username/apache-tomcat-6.0.29/bin 
 Now give the following command 
   ./startup.sh or sh startup.sh
  # Now your application is UP and running. You can test it live. 